## An Idea Generator

The mind is an incredible conception, it defies belief with its
complexity. Where else is there in nature something so mechanically
elaborate, something so clearly set apart and mystifying? Nature has
endured for billions of years apart from the concept of meta-awareness;
the concept of self-referrential awareness is not necessary to facilitate
the transfer of genetic information into new generations.

Cytokinesis occurs irrespective of observation; the idea of how so
flagrant a bizarrely deviant system could depart from the already firmly
tested and proven, it seems, ipso factor, to have been a mistake. And yet,
it was *wildly* successful. This ephemeral adaptation to the evolutionary
niche of tool use would prove to be an impossible stumbling block for
every great scientist and thinker for all of history, even unto this very
day.

Through phenomenology one can explain cognition, that is to say, the
process of extrapolating sensory data into persistent but evolving
constructs of perception. One "cognizes" a specific thing; cognition
doesn't occur independently of an observer. The thing that does the
cognition does so with two implicit assumptions: there is a construct
capable of generating the vehicle for accumulating sensory data, and there
is data to be received. In most animals, the vehicle for accumulating the
senses is the animal's brain. Through the various nervous systems and
sensory apparatuses, the animal can generate a mostly stable behavioral
model that sustainably fulfills biological imperatives. Human beings are
so bizarre because we can become aware that this process is happening.

The brain has served its purpose well in the hundreds
of millions of years it's been around. Somehow, the generation of
awareness of it's own operation has, to a degree, become the direction
nature has taken. One cannot accurately estimate an outcome's probability
from data that comes from outside the system in which the measuring
occurs. So, if we take all of life up unto now as evidence, it seems that
the organisms most adept at exploiting their natural habitats are the most
successful.

Lifeforms capable of concentrating organizational complexity through
biological and behavioral processes are most likely to achieve mastery
over their immediate environments. While it is true that, for billions of
years, a bacteria induced ice age flooded Earth's atomsphere with toxic
levels of oxygen that annihilated all surface life, this was an indirect
consequence- the result could not be causally bound so tightly as it might
with a conscious actor, such that occurs with animal life. No bacteria or
individual organism could claim its individual genetic 

We now stand as pinnacles of dominance heretofore inconceivable by the
many gangling bipeds and ungulate mammals which came before us, even
greater than the millions of years in which the reptiles controlled the
biosphere,

You don't feel your kidney working. It isn't possible to peer into the
mechanism of operation that facilitates a fully functioning liver. Are you
able to ponder the RNA transfering in the newly developing cells which
replace the damaged ones on your skin's surface? Where can I introspect
that will reveal the experience of T-cells adapting to identify newly
introduced viruses? 

## The Call of Duty

Where we sit today, there is a great unitive bond which connects us at
almost every level of our society: the internet. We are bound
economically, culturally, politically, even psychologically, by this
gestalt of information. It has embedded us into a matrix of shared
experience that both molds us and is molded by us. We are known to each
other first and foremost by the knowledge imparted by Google; the modern
trade route begins first through the web of advertisement and algorithmic
engagement, and only then proceeds to logistics networks and freight
transportation. 

It should come as no surprise that such companies have become more wealthy
and powerful than entire countries, even to the point of managing federal
law and cycling lobbyists in and out of courts like Roman legionaries in
a battle formation. Such vast quantities of information, and therefore
power, flow into and out of the cold metal sarcophagi of Google's data
servers, it should be enough to warrant immediate concern by anyone
interested in the prosperity of their nation. It is not just a matter of
national welfare, but geopolitical stability; while the risk of corporate
interests being foisted on other nations by force is not likely, the power
concentrated into such few hands naturally lends itself to brutality and
a greater potential for acting on it.

## Going Down With the Ship

I used to go to a martial arts academy, and my Sifu always told me the
same thing when I was on the verge of exhaustion after losing another
duel: "Don't fight for your own sake, fight for the sake of the many
innocent and downtrodden who stand to benefit from your success." He meant
that, in the moment that I found myself grappling the surroundings for
leverage, my subconscious was churning out impulses in a sea of dissonant
motivations. Each thought and impulse comes from the torrid waters of
a lake of fathomless depth; the certainty and precision of one's strike is
determined from the moment the thought arises, the martial arts both
depend on and are meant to refine keeping the lake calm during the storm
of combat. It is therefore necessary to achieve unity and coherence within
this dissonant frenzy, allowing each voice to stand together in the
primary interest of achieving mutual success. He meant that, before you
take another step, remember what matters most to you.

The human body is imitably complex; subconscious desires and motivations
are often varied and ill-defined, and frequently contradictory. Rage and
anger motivate ruthlessness and brutality, compassion and understanding
motivate civility and mercy. It is rare that one's mind can ever be truly
immune to either polarity completely, and when hegemony does occur, the
balance is fragile and easily overcome. Success is therefore not
determined by absolute obedience and total domination, but by consensus of
intent and mutual polarization.

To enter combat with another is to set one's mind to be tested. With each
blow, the contents of the mind are brought to surface and made to stand in
judgement. Those who are bound by ignorance of these forces fall easily to
those trained to recognize the patterns, but what good does awareness of
this process do? As I stumble about, wheezing and tottering over from
exertion, how do these words benefit my efforts? After all, we are all
still limited by habits and tendencies, no matter how experienced or
self-aware of them we might become. To withstand judgement in combat, to
even hope of choosing to fight again, one must polarize their very essence
towards overcoming a battle; one must have established a passion or
internal compulsion which trancends context. 

To truly learn to fight, you must understand yourself well enough to
determine what kind of person you chose to be. The one who is unarmored,
adrift in the wind, will be easily struck down by those who are firmly
rooted in pallisades of steel. The powerful gust of wind shatters the
simple camp, but a stone fortress stands unmoved. To enter combat with an
unfocused mind is to disarm yourself before even the first strike. To
truly learn to fight, you must first perceive the implication of the
battle, the possible outcomes, those involved and their intentions, and do
so with unified resolve to take action. This cannot be done without
awareness, for the one who is able to perceive themselves honestly is
capable of determining whether this is so in another.

Whenever my Sifu told me those words, it sparked within me an awareness
unique and unforgettable; through all the noise and complications of life,
the desire to protect and serve remains of unquestionable importance.
Being reminded in the heat of combat of this imicible quality would not
necessarily create a second wind, or otherwise enhance my prowess. All it
did was enable me to overcome any barriers I had erected in the way of
pursuing that goal. The core memory of being in service to others provides
for me a rallying flag by which a final stand may take place against any
singlular distraction. By recalling the union of spirit that is set into
motion at the sight of grotesque suffering, my mind is tested once more-
the fires of combat are an outward manifestation of an inward journey.
Would I rise and fight? Would I sink and bow in defeat? The consensus of
intent becomes bounded by the cohesion of my internal logic, and such
questions become effortless decisions born from a mind of calm waters.

## A Reflection on Stoicism

Why do these teachings seem ubiquitous throughout the world, and take
different forms according to the cultures which produced them, while
remaining fundamentally similar? Is it the greatness of the sage which is
required to bring them out and into the public consciousness? Are there
key moments in history which implicate the winning parties of conflicts
with the pen of doctrine with which inerrant revelatory wisdom may be
enshrined? I tell you the truth, or my truth, as much as I can see it,
that it has nothing to do with person, place, time, or conflict. These
teachings are the natural outcome of one who is polarizing themselves
towards service to others, in opposition of service to self; the one who
truly understands and acknowledges virtue must make the choice of whether
to accept the responsibility it demands, or to disregard and exploit it
for personal gain. The following essay is meant to expound this idea and
what I mean by it, and hopefully provide a different perspective on stoic
philosophy.

None of what makes philosophy great is truly dependent on the people
expounding it. They are largely irrelevant; their words echo into history
as messages bound inexorably to future recipients like the photon; bound
up in the moment of it's inception to it's annihilation by a causal thread
which weaves the transaction up into a single, self-contained moment of
timeless transaction. The philosopher who receives it plucks the thread
and produces a note, which may inspire their own song, but the nature of
the photon is not dependent on the individual quantum object, except in
what way it might travel and according to what frequency of energy.

Light exhibits the same behavioral tendencies regardless of source,
according to primordial mechanisms that exclude partiality. It is ironic
then, that just as the light of our sun is refracted by the scattering of
our atmosphere to produce the illusion of a limitless blue sky, so to is
it with the cultures and traditions which draw on the Perrenial
Philosophy. Are the mechanisms of refraction important or notable? Surely,
yes, as they are part and parcel with the observed outcome as part of the
reality we experience- but they are not to be confused for the light
itself. It turns out, by percentage volume, most of the light from the sun
is actually green. This emitted light takes on the entire visible spectrum
in roughly equal representation, but green is the highest proportion,
statistically. It is meaningless to discuss philosophy in context of the
"best", or the "most true", just as it is to discuss whether or not the
sun is green.

When you perceive correctly that your actions have consequences which
extend far beyond yourself and your immediate experience, the process of
developing higher consciousness begins- you learn that fate is largely
immovable, but is also something within your control. I can chose whether
or not to help others or to manipulate them for my own gain. I can chose
to help others without thinking of my own benefit, but simply because the
outcome will lend itself towards a better conclusion for all. I can also
choose to deceive others by rhetoric and complicated parables while hiding
my own agenda and motivations, choosing to establish control rather than
trust. The extent of your awareness and the capacity you have developed to
utilize it are what prompt the necessity of virtue, and thus, sages and
wise teachers are born.

The sage does not come from God as the apple does, which falls from the
tree. There is no celestial dew-drop that bears the sweet sap of divinity
that is permitted by ecclesiastic decree to descend onto earth and feed
the hungry. The wisdom of the immovable fundamental forces is perfectly
self-evident and can be discovered by anyone at any time in any place,
just as easily as a repeatable experiment which produces a measurable
result. Look at what virtue is, see it for what it's constituent members
really are- apart from dogma and tradition. Observe and deconstruct with
patient silence, in the quiet place of your heart, where these things take
their meaning and why. As time goes on, and the learning process
facilitates itself in each of us by the very nature of our lives unfolding
as they do, we become more and more aware of this process and it's
eventual conclusion.

Every story must one day end, and each of ours is no different. If you can
perceive where your story is fated to end, you can roughly determine the
steps which lead to the final thematic flourish, and piece together the
plot elements necessary along the way. It is according to your judgement
and inclination that such a determination can be made, at any time, in
your total control. Almost every other part of your life, which is to say
the vast bulk of it, is outside of you and of which you are merely an
observer. Only the outcome of your trajectory can be sighted and aimed
for, just as the artillery is positioned carefully before firing according
to the science of ballistic mechanics. Unlike artillery, the path taken by
the ammunition through the air is slow and may oftentimes be met with
setbacks and failure. What determines one's polarity is not necessarily
whether they achieve perfection, but whether they are able to endure
failure with perseverance. The one who admits wrong-doing and comprehends
the act in its entirety serves a greater purpose than one who has never
done wrong at all, because they embody the lesson learned and may transfer
this understanding to others, embodying the spirit of what service to
others is all about.

The conclusion of this story specifically, which is long overdue, surely
must return to where it started. What is the value of philosophy? Nothing.
Where can authentic wisdom and inspiration be found? Nowhere. When do we
act and when do we exercise restraint? Never to either. Stoic philosophy
teaches us that there is no good or bad, right or wrong, only virtue- only
experience. The one who lives according to virtue does so in accordance
with the Logos, or the universal principles that underly all causation. To
ignore or move against these principles does not empower you to overcome
them, only to deceive yourself and others into believing they do not
exist. You cannot escape your failures just as you cannot escape your
successes; no one who wakes up in the morning has done so without lying
down to sleep the previous night. If you act in impropriety, you are given
the opportunity to make amends and learn how to avoid depolarizing from
virtue. If you act in wisdom and chose benevolently, you are given the
opportunity to align with virtue. Either way, it is our perception of the
event which colors it's outcome.

My final note on this is perhaps the most important: be careful when using
these words and building a narrative around these concepts. The one who
builds for himself a tower high up into the sky may find  torrential rain
and gusts of wind bending and buckling the foundations; if the tower is
not supported properly, it may come crashing down, killing all who dwell
within it. If you take these things as truths and attempt to define
yourself by them, be ready to endure the shame and guilt of failure. The
deeper your commitment to ideals and philosophies, the deeper your
resentment towards yourself will be when you inevitably fail. The voice
which inspires you today will chastise and torment you tomorrow- don't
deceive yourself into believing that the version of yourself you think you
will become is assured to come, if only you just believe, fast, pray,
meditate, and do good deeds enough. Do not trust this impulse, because it
is inherently egotistic, and it can be easily manipulated by others who
are thoroughly deceived themselves, intentionally or otherwise. Instead,
just remember this simple credos, which is in itself sufficient: "In all
your ways, think of how you can best help the common good." 
