# Towards Ataraxia, According to Nature

When someone wrongs you, consider their reasoning and determine their
motive. If their concepts of good and evil are similar to yours, then they
have simply made an error and acted in ignorance, as you have done
repeatedly, and compassion comes forth readily. If their concepts of good
and evil differ from yours, they are either mistaken or have a lesson to
teach you. In the former case, you know full well that suffering and
ignorance go hand in hand; to be caught in a cycle of self-destructive
behavior is a continual process of attracting and projecting scorn. In the
latter, an opportunity to reflect on your beliefs and how they should
change to meet your newly refined character. In both cases, anger and
resentment do nothing to address the actual issue. Instead, such emotions
either merely contribute to the suffering of the one already caught in
a cycle of self-destructive behavior, or prevent you from growing as
a person by reinforcing biases which are built on cognitive dissonance.

The honorable man is one who does not speak idly, one whose words are
chosen carefully and with reservation in the face of harm or ill intent.
He whose heart chooses gratitude first, whose mind conjures images of the
best in others, and whose body moves and breathes as one to bring these
ideas to fruition. With a patient hand does he deal with the shortcomings
of others, eager to offer it without favoritism to those who have fallen,
whether they be friend or foe.

When quick to listen and slow to speak, falsehoods and manipulation wither
and die in the blistering heat of contemplative silence.

An unwavering gaze pierces the hearts of the proud, provoking ire in the
boastful and abusive; a steady coutenance bends the conceited, they are
broken on the abrasive waves of their own contempt.


