## Holy Shit, It's Been Awhile.

A new revelation, a bolt from the blue, apocalpyse of apotheosis, the
Pleroma laid bare and beheld in intimate embrace; "Gotta say, it feels
good to be back." I run greased fingers through my hair and struggle
vainly to light up a cigarette- pausing momentarily to locate the brain
data coordinates for wherever my cheap plastic comb is. "It's like ripping
off a velcro strap and smacking one of the pair to a gaping maw of
profundity." Sparks fall impotently out of the lighter nestled in my
hands. "Actually, that doesn't make much sense- unless the velcro was
entangled in a quantum superposition with its twin, but then the metaphor
would be more like an EEG signal than a piece of sticky plastic." I toss
the unlit cigarette on the ground, ruffled up like a game-cock loose in
the ring. "One of these days, I'm gonna get an LLM trained to auto quote
overly verbose metaphors, so I can use a Vim keybind to print them on
command." Someone shouts a muffled complaint from a distant room.
"Whatever, man. There's gotta be some kinda law against automating
profundity, but it regularly keeps happening whenever I metabolize certain
compounds." 

I glance over at the cigarette as it stops rolling in the groove of the
carpet at my feet. "Yeah, that shit slaps hard. I mean, an argument could
be ma-" before another wormy vowel could slither out of my wheezy
food-hole, an upraised hand snaps command of the situation, leaving me
stunned and docile. "Are you talking about *that* thing, dude?" The hand
violently accuses with a pointing gesture, angled squarely at the
discarded tube. "Yeah. You want some?" I gesture plaintively towards the
colorless paper now hewn menacing and stark. In a fit of posessed seizing,
the hand retracts, and a rustling noise ensues. "Nah man, it ain't like
that," I plead. "You dig what I'm docking?" I lean down and snatch the
ignominious cylinder between two fingers. "Dude, have you ever heard of
post-apocolyptic acid rock?" A face emerges slowly from behind the wall,
twisted with thinly veiled contempt. "That shit is **POISON**, dude." My
eyes glaze over as I burst out into a shit-eating grin. "So... that a no?"
Sighing, I run my still greasy digits across the same row of hair I've
been manicuring now for several hours, like an enormous tool. "Watch."
I gently placate the seam of the untorched smoke, exposing it's juicy
core. "Oh shit, I thought that was a cigarette." As if by psychic
transubstantiation, Bhutanese Shadow-Garden Dark Evil Pack bears the
weight of my sins, and the profane wand sublimates like a Disney Princess
into it's alter-ego: a heat packing, snoochy-boochie, premo, zoot-making
doobie. I flick the lighter compulsively; this time yielding a quivering
flame.

Face now contorted in awe, I go in for the divinely ordained first puff.
"Bro, come over here and get this J Bizzle, yo." Tentatively, my would-be
assailant shuffles over and accepts the olive branch, lighting it on fire
with ceasefired suspicion. We sit in silence; all I can do is stare
patiently at his strenuously inflated chest. "God damn, that's a pretty
big hit." Unfazed, his face enters the rapture of intense concentration.
Two minutes pass, and he's still going. It's pretty incredible watching
this guy chipmunk a few CCs into practically aveoli in his lungs, but as
the awkwardness begins to set in, I start zipping and unzipping my
jacket pocket while staring at a nearby table.
"WHHEUEUURRRGGHHHHUUUGUGHHHH", he says. I take a second to figure out what
'WHHEUEUURRRGGHHHHUUUGUGHHHH' means, but his hand defiantly interjects as
he offers up the final verdict: "Sour as a moldy prune. This shit'l turn
your pacemaker off, for real." He shoves the now thoroughly sizzled bone
back into my hands, and I take a second to marvel. 

"You know, I always thought you put apostrophes on 'its' when you wanted
to indicate a possesive." My now thoroughly sauteed companion stares
inquisitively off into the distance. "No, dude. You only use them to
indicate a contraction or to quote inside a quote." We both lean back and
start squinting slightly. "You wanna google that, bro? I've been doing
that for like, a decade now." Demanding tribute for even entertaining
doubt, his hand opens expectantly. I submit; a few puffs later, he
confirms my suspicions. Waving merriam-webster around like he was invoking
a god damn divine entity, his response sends me into webbed consternation.
"But it also says that English used to work like that, a few hundred years
ago." I start fiddling with my jacket pocket again while locked in psychic
combat with the nearby table. A glance over briefly to my right yields
a matter of conern; there's a warm orange glow coming from the hallway.
"Oh god dammit, will you turn off that light?". My companion scoffs and
unfurls into a peal of unprincpled giggling. Unwilling to tolerate his
whimsical bullshit, I move to the doorway as visibly irritated as
possible. I've got exactly two nanoseconds to process the world-shattering
calamity careening towards my skull before it slams into me, leaving me
doubled over and on the ground. A systems failure alert kicks in as an
ineffable suffusion of gnosis rushes into my bloodstream, bootstarting my
consciousness with a single resounding thought: "I KNOW WHERE THE COMB
IS!!!" like a frenzied animal lurching towards its prey, I procure my
dermatological excalibur from the same jacket pocket I had been fiddling
with for hours. My companion and I make eye contact, and he nods sagely.
"Yeah, this that evil sorcerer shit." I concur, and cash the boof as
propitiatory sacrifice to the astrological patron deity of randomly
remembering where you put things.

Another few minutes pass in silence, and my relapse into telepathic melee
with the nearby furniture is interrupted by a contextless remark: "No, but
I'm guessing you found a YouTube playlist with "acid rock" or whatever in
the title?" I silently commune with the Godhead and pluck out the response
from the endless Akash; "Actually, it was on Pandora." There's around
a half-second delay before nausea registers on my companion's face;
I thank my invisible cherubic cognoscenti for the advice, and return to
the anti-IKEA warding ritual. I could ask Alexa to play something by
Dystopia NÃ¥, but decide against it. 

## Wizards

Alright, so, there's this magical orb floating on my desk right now.
I walked in a few minutes ago and it was just, kind of floating there?
I mean, it was probably a few minutes ago. Honestly, I can't remember how
long it's been. Are you seeing this thing? How could you not be staring at
it too? It is eerily round; it's like when you see a perfectly rendered
triangle for the first time in your life. Every other three pointed shape
whose adjoining angles added up to 90 was just a crude approximation of
*this* thing. Does it smell slightly like a bowling alley to you? No, not
the orb itself, just like, the room in general. It smells like someone
just popped open a fresh bottle of polish and fumbled the ball in every
direction at once. What? No, I meant the polish, not the actual ball. Of
*course* I didn't tell management. What do you think they would do if
I told them a mystical sphere was levitating over my paperwork, radiating
with vaguely platonic vibes?

Look, I think we both know what needs to happen. When life drops a mystic
sphere on your desk, you don't look a gift horse in the arcane globe. I'm
telling you I'm about to cast some fucking spells right now, and there's
no negotiating on this. Well, I'm going to cast some spells once I figure
out how it works; this thing is as perfectly spherical as it is
mysterious. Where's the magical genie or handy plot device to walk me
through the intro quest? Are you telling me that there's no tutorial for
this? Who just drops a scrying crystal imbued with some occult kinetic
agency without tossing an orientation pamphlet on the side? You aren't
being very helpful right now, by the way. There's a clear mission
objective here and I need you to focus up. You can try solving that subway
surfer level later... or whatever it is you're doing. No, I don't know who
Baruch Spinoza is, and- wait, is this related to Elon Musk somehow? AUGH.
You have evaded the infinite gravitas of plot development for long enough,
oh feeble tenant of but an hour!

Actually, I changed my mind. Suddenly, I'm feeling pretty creeped out by
this whole situation. I swear to god I just saw a face on that thing. Yes,
a human face. Wait, no, that was just my face. Still, the vibe is off now
and I'm utterly overcome by the sneaking suspicion that a colossal
fireball is about to explode from under that desk. Or *worse*, a teleport
spell that vivisects everyone in a ten foot radius and leaves their
quivering legs on some random beach in Cancun. No, that hasn't
specifically happened before, it was just coincidentally specific. Don't
distract me here, I'm really freaking out about this and need to focus on
that fact. Are you sure there's no jewel encrusted USB stick with
a spheromancy tutorial on it somewhere? What about an owl or some shit?
I know, it's a little cliche, but an animal familiar would also be pretty
sweet, so we shouldn't rule it out. What? I can't hear what you're saying,
you keep mumbling all the time, we've talked ab- oh my *god* you're RIGHT.
This is **exactly** the plot of Merlin, and we are falling RIGHT into the
villain's trap. This is like when Arthur gets Excalibur, except it's
a perfectly smooth orb, and there's no mermaid anywhere. Can we... verify
that? Okay, fine, "sea nymph". Whatever, man. You know what I'm talking
about. Maybe its like that innocuous wardrobe that contained an
interdimensional portal to Lion-Jesus' forested domain, except with
a puddle of coffee someone spilled in a corner or something.

Oh, *shit*, did it just turn green? You saw that, right? I am seriously
not prepared for this. Okay, breathe. There's only so many ways we can get
out of this alive, and panicking isn't one of them. No, we can't just
*leave* it here, are you insane? What if it destabilizes the leylines and
and accidentally invokes C'thrgknn the Terrible or something? Do you want
demons running around the second story of an office complex? Because
failure to take action now could have **serious** consequences. No, of
course I don't "know what green means" smartass; you can bet it's not
a good thing though. When the hulk turns green it's not because he's ready
to burst into a musical sequence and tell you a riddle that makes you
think about life. Alright, that's enough screwing around. I'm going to do
what needs to be done, and grapple with this relic until its
secrets drip from my hands like honey from a smashed comb. Okay, fine;
I'll ask the orb about [Spinoza](../philosophy/Spinoza.md).
