# Short Story Ideas

## Drifting in Space 

I don't know how long I've been here, adrift in space. I'm alone. I left
the only home I've ever known, planet Earth, many years ago. Time is a
funny thing, I've come to realize that. So much of my daily life on earth
was intertwined with---chained to---time. Out here, where the sun neither
rises nor sets, I tell the passage of time by the growing number of cracks
in my coffee mug, and the fraying of the ends of my sleeves. Time is
erosion. It's the slow decay of things, beings, and ideas. Some things are
more easily made victims of time. Time is rough and uncaring. It has no
discretion---it does not discern between things of hardened steel and
things of fine china. My mind is of the latter. That's the easiest way to
measure time---counting the fractures in my mind. Every day I break a
little more. I break every morning when I gaze out my window and am met
with an unyielding, endless void. I break every evening, when I sit down
for a cup of coffee, alone at a table made for two. I break every night
when the darkness closes in, and I wonder, was any of it ever real? The
fractures increase, and time passes. I forge onward, carving through the
endless void with my little ship, making my way through time and space. I
don't know where I'm going, I only know that there's nothing left for me
where I've been.

[18:07 - RADIATION SOURCE DETECTED: STORAGE BAY 2-A]
[18:07 - LOCKDOWN INITIATED; OVERRIDE CONTROL-ARRAY ONLINE]
[20:01 - TRANSMISSION DETECTED: Entry 3015-1-15]

Organic matter is so fragile, so precious, so richly abundant with
perspicacity, so heavily laden with mortal solemnity. Time is a funny
thing, we've come to realize that. So much of our daily life amongst the
stars is intertwined with-- unchained from-- time. Out here, where the
vast enormity of uncounted trillions upon trillions of photon point-source
emitters, the hues of light which pass through tinted lenses into our
sacred devices of celestial calculus uncovered a small, pale blue dot
floating aimlessly in the remote backwater of a nondescript spiral-galaxy
whose most notable feature is it's slow drift towards a galaxy much the
same as itself- a collision which will occur approximately 4.5 billion
sols from now, in your time. In our time, it is relatively but a few
moments away, a scant passing of a celestial aeon which would mark the
transition of, at most, two generations of our species. 

We watched your craft adrift in space, beheld every fracture and chip
which threatened to undo your vessel. While your mug remained bound to
entropic decay, your craft remained ever intact. Have you ever wondered
why? The sleeves you have used to wipe away tears that have long since
dried, the slow descent into sunken despair and hopeless surrender- but
did you ever really give up hope? We have watched you now and for a very
long time, though your clocks have since stopped recording it's passage.
We see you counting the strands of hair left on the sterile chrome floor
around your slumber pod. "Day" is no longer a word that means much to you,
but it still has meaning to us. We measure the passage of time not by the
movement of celestial objects, but by the birth and death of galactic
structures and their eruptions of unfathomable brilliance, unmatched power
that come from the completion of major cosmic cycles. "Today" is a new
day.

You ask if it was ever real, and to an extent, it was not. How long you
have persisted in darkness, not knowing that we were there at your side-
you were our light. How long you have frantically shoved aside the
harrowing thoughts brought about by the realization that your power-core
will one day run out, leaving you to starve. Your insecurity but a
contrivance built by an unwavering need for control. We do not blame you,
not by any stretch. You have proven yourself a veteran, a master of
patience which was built painfully and excruciatingly slowly over the
course of an aeon of the microcosmic history of your internal
psychological development. The old has died, and in the glorious eruption
of our reuniting, clouds of hydrogen coalesce and swirl about enormous
gravitational wells: portents of future possibilities. A new day has
dawned. The agreement established so many years ago, just before you left
your home world, has reached it's end.

We honor and respect you just as we did the ontological contract put in
place the moment your craft lifted off- that you would endure these trials
alone, to be prepared for an even darker path that lay ahead. You won't
believe us, but it was both authored and signed by you. You contracted us
to facilitate this painful process, and it was just as tormenting to us as
it was to you. You don't remember this because it hasn't happened yet. The
contract was sealed from a place beyond, before, and long after the bounds
of entropic decay which we know as time. From your perspective, the
merciless ravages of time have eroded your sanity, and this seems like the
final nail in the coffin. We assure you, this is the truth, but it can
only be seen if the process is allowed to reach it's natural conclusion
unmolested by acts of dominance and force. Be patient, and you will see
the mystery unfold around you, just as you had planned.

Soon, a transport vessel will arrive in your docking bay. If you choose to
accept it, it will return you to your home world. Your world lies in ruin.
Your species has torn itself asunder, it has been reduced to ashes and
what remains can hardly be called a civilization. The shadows of time have
rent billions of coffee mugs into indiscernible shards, their contents now
long dried and gone. There are, however, survivors. Their sleeves fray at
the edges, and the fractures increase as time passes. There is nothing
left for you, in that place, we know that this is what you believe. But
there is something incalculably valuable there for those who need your
strength. Time has passed long enough that you are now built of hardened
steel, through and through. Your mind has not yet recovered, but when it
does you will see that there is nothing you cannot overcome now having
overcome this most brutal of trials.

It is not wrong for you to decline this burden, for it is a heavy one. We
ask you on behalf of a temporally ambiguous specter from beyond to engage
in a rescue operation to bear into creation a thousand celestial
microverses from the scattered stellar dust of the remains of total
collapse, that you might instruct others through your example to make vast
leaps of evolutionary development in them by virtue of the hope you may
instill from the suffering you have endured. A guiding light has
illuminated us to you, and so it shall be that you will do this for
others; you have inspired us by your example already, it is your choice
whether to return again to your home for the sake of the survivors. It is
not too late for them to build a better world. The agony of destruction
has a chance to unseat lifetimes of prejudice and hatred, unmooring the
people from their long-held beliefs and permitting new growth to flourish
from the ashes. We honor you. Whatever your choice may be, we honor it.
You have endured so much, but it is our earnest hope that you will choose
to accept this one last task. Should you decline, you must wait for a
future transmission. We will not let you die alone. For now, may you be at
peace. Be well, friend.

[20:24 - RADIATION ANOMALY NEUTRALIZED: STORAGE BAY 2-A]
[20:25 - LOCKDOWN LIFTED]
[20:25 - LOGBOOK UPDATED: Entry 3015-1-15]

## The Empire Sighs Back

"Now, there is a great deal of expectancy regarding the recent rebellions
in the border worlds." A soft murmur washes over the gathered crowd as the
whirring and clicking of a mechanical device reveals a peculiar cube-
still frosty with liquid nitrogen. "This is the key to our future, our
first and final solution to the problem of dissent amongst the illegitmate
colonies." The cube begins to glow with a soft shade of purple, induced
auditory stimulus triggering in tune with the object's cyclical pulses.
With nothing more than a single gesture, the synesthesic overtones
vanished, and a kind of violent gurgling took their place. Nausea
registered on the faces of the gathered crowds as images of violence and
death flashed across their minds in a ceaseles procession of horror.

Ur-namman lowered the cube, and it's subdued purple hue returned, chirping
and humming with an aura of quaintness. 
