## About Spinoza

Baruch Spinoza was a philosopher of the 17th century, during a time of
unprecedented cultural revolution and changing sympathies in intellectual
circles. The scientific revolution was underway, and cartesian rationalism
was quickly replacing the scholasticism of humanistic christian theology
popular at the time. Spinoza had experienced ritualized religious shaming
and ostracization from an early age, and this experience, coupled with an
adamant insistence on virtue and the pursuit of understanding, forced him
to synthesize a working philosophy that gave his life direction and
purpose during a time of cultural upheaval. Really, he isn't much
different than the rest of us, and I'm certain he would agree. The
philosophy in question is multifaceted, but we can focus on perhaps it's
most broad and abstract concept, and thereby deduce the rest.

Spinoza's "God" is a relic of a time when orthodoxy was often enforced
with brutality; he paints a picture of God only in the vaguest sense. It
is more accurate to refer to his concept of cosmic entelechy as "Nature"
itself, in the same vein as the Stoics did before him. A kind of renovated
Logos, this time with mathematical precision; a primordial engineering
impulse whose only definable characteristics consisted of what could be
verified by experiment. If he were not subconsciously motivated by the
tradition of his native culture, he would've no doubt seemed right at home
in the modern philosophical gestalt of rational scientific skepticism. All
of nature can be considered to be of one "substance" according to Spinoza.
This means that, when the boundaries by which things in Nature are defined
fall under scrutiny, they are shown to be almost entirely illusory.

What is there about the chair that makes it a chair? What is the chair,
when you dissolve it's parts into infinitesimal units? A chair is defined
by it's capacity to serve as a seat, it is intentionally vague, and serves
as colloquial convenience. If you take the chair apart, piece by piece,
you will find that each part has a similar conventional label that has no
lasting permanence or independent existence. What is the seat without the
back? What are the legs without the seat? Each part needs it's
co-dependent elements in order to hold any meaning at all. Spinoza wanted
to hold the archetype of the object he was observing to the utmost
scrutiny, to see what was really there at the root. A perspective no doubt
lifted from other rationalist traditions. His conclusion was that nothing
could be held in observation that could be apart from observation but the
act of observation itself. In other words, nothing can be understood in
all of creation without reference to something else, except for the common
element which binds them- that they exist. If existence itself is the only
independent "substance" that something can possess, we can organize all
observable phenomena as being "attributes" or "modes" by which this
quintessence is made manifest.

Spinoza defined this "God" primarily by the unchangeable and unmovable,
religious imagery not unfamiliar with the reader of his time. The
difference was that, to him, any particular detail or attribute ascribable
to such a thing was merely a mistaken interpretation of a "mode" in place
of "substance", which he concluded was singular and unitive with all of
being. This is encapsulated by his famous saying, "Deus siva Natura",
which means, "God or Nature". Specifically, he states that his idea of God
is "the sum of the natural and physical laws", insofar as these are the
only substantive things by which modes and attributes can be causally
related.

This interpretation of the mystery of being has been labeled as
"pantheistic", but I think it should be seen first as a rejection of
mind-body dualism, and second as an attempt to "modernize" stoic ideas
into an enlightenment ethos. Spinoza was no stranger to religious trauma,
and had been virtually disowned by his birth family and the community
which raised him. He obviously was concerned with virtue and pursuit of
the "perfect", but was utterly unwilling to confer ownership of such
sanctity to any particular attribute of the substance of reality apart
from that which could be observed and rationally validated.

Mind-body dualism is an attempt to set humanity apart from the rest of
Nature, a position inherently biased in our favor. Spinoza found that this
argument rested on egotistic assumptions, and had no interest in the
justifications offered by so-called "wise men" who seemed ignorant of how
utterly dependent their minds were on the functions of the body. However,
he also rejected what would later become known as "nihilism", or the idea
that material reality held no organizational principle or binding logic
apart from random chance and probability. Spinoza very much so inherited
the intentions of the Stoics before him, he only appropriated both
religious and secular imagery to illustrate his point without committing
to the baggage of either one. To him, existence was a mathematical
necessity, one that was implied by existence itself coupled with the
mechanical unfoldment of cause and effect. To achieve the "perfect", in
other words, to attain virtue, we should look to the mathematical
necessities for inspiration. How else could he have spoken so broadly and
vividly about ethics and virtue, if he did not see these two things as
indivisible qualities akin to any other fundamental force?

Therefore, in speaking about Spinoza and his philosophy, let us use words
like "teleology" and "purpose" only in the loosest sense, in accordance
with his understanding of the inherent hollowness of whatever meaning we
might ascribe to phenomena in the world and our individual lives. We might
appropriate later developments in the scientific rationalist tradition,
and use words like "evolution" to describe the unfoldment of events
according to their innate principles and interdependent qualities, keeping
in mind that to ascribe human intention to these amoral processes is to
take Spinoza's ideas in bad faith.

I write all this assuming that it is ludicrous to imagine that he would
reject the importance of the ethical prerogative of philosophical thought;
if we are interested in the "infinite modes", we should seek to understand
the "finite" ones, in other words, to determine which attributes of Nature
are revealed implicitly by the way it "chooses" to manifest itself. If we
are to take seriously the idea of all conceivable entities being
extensions of some root substance from which all things proceed outwards
from, we must accede that the unfoldment process of existence itself must
indicate a evolutionary template of profound significance that is as much
implicated in the development of the living organism as it is of the
development of nucleosynthesis in the hearts of stars.

There is something about the progression of humanity throughout it's span
here on Earth that vaguely gestures towards some teleological end-point,
albeit one that unfolds gradually in the present rather than one attracts
acutely from the future. We inherit the genetic endowment of a million
million generations of living beings who, collectively, have engineered
a vast epic spanning the eons in which the rules of the game and it's
intrinsic limitations provide a narrow band of conjecture from which we
can attempt an eschatological hypothesis, if just in principle. Our
inheritance is as stable and bounded as the Sun's perennial march through
the sky. If we can theoretically know the means, is it not reasonable to
assume that physical reality will unfold according to those means, just as
it has for billions of years?

Spinoza's world was just discovering logical positivism, and he was eager
to merge the old world with this new one. He did not have the vocabulary
we do now, but the ideas are compatible. However, what isn't compatible
with his ideas are concepts like genetic engineering, extra-planetary
colonization, terraforming, or nuclear weapons. Suddenly, in the briefest
flash of but a few decades of progress, we are made aware that the seeming
orderly progression of natural evolutionary processes are only incidental
to the means available. If it is possible to ascribe a purpose to life,
indeed, to creation itself, we must account for the possibility of
biological life one day remaking creation in it's own image. I am not
implying it has occurred before, or that humanity is even in principle
capable of the act of paracausal interference with reality, but it is
certainly inevitable that someone, somewhere, will try.

If a species learned to undo the grasp of death, to banish the winnowing
agency forever, would they still be considered living? Do we understand
ourselves as packets of genetic information which reproduce and transmit
themselves through biological chemistry, or as the processes of which
these things are immediate consequences? If we lose biological mortality
entirely by means of technology, what will the bounds of our evolutionary
progress become? If we are to try and provide a scope for the bounds of
possibility in the attempt to recover the "substance" from it's
multitudinous "attributes", we must seek to push the boundary as far as
possible, and determine the basic common elements.

In Spinoza's mind, such a venture would be foolish, because nature is by
definition an unknowable, unmovable cognate from which all else springs
forth, just as the next moment is always necessitated by, and dependent
on, the one preceding it. However, if we are to assume that nature remains
unmovable as an attribute that necessarily arises from it's expression in
the stable unfoldment of the universe throughout all time, it therefore
must possess certain qualities to the exclusion of others. Chaos does, in
fact, not reign supreme: there are limitations present that reveal aspects
about nature just as color might reveal qualities of physical objects.

From the very beginning of all life, out of the seemingly endless slumber
of molten rock and frigid glacier, biological complexity arose- likely
multiple times after various extinction events. Each time it did, it
brought about a new way for matter to entertain itself in an intricate
dance. The fire that burns in the hearts of stars will each one day
exhaust themselves and turn their hunger inward by the vast burden of
their own mass- a supernova, or something like it, by which one celestial
form gives way to another. The matter released by such an event is
saturated with heavier elements that can only come about from such intense
heat and pressure. These elements swirl and coalesce in interstellar
space, gradually forming the basis for planetary formation and the
aggregation of the ingredients for life.

The promethean torch which provided the stage upon which the drama of life
unfolded did not have an instinct for self-preservation or a bounding
affection apart from gravity and the other fundamental forces. To describe
the star as selfless or as a heroic figure whose noble sacrifice releases
the keys of biological life out into the cosmos is only useful as colorful
prose. When life finally did come about, as it was inevitably bound to do
so, only then had matter become locked into a complex arrangement from
which ideas like "sacrifice" and "selflessness" could become possible.

This instinct for continuity can be said for all living things, just as
Spinoza notes, "Beings are defined by their capacity for being affected".
He is implying that, as physical entities, lifeforms are obligated by
their nature to pursue courses of action which are both led by desire and
bounded by capacity. The lizard and I both share a need to eat; our
natures are both led forward by the necessity of food as a physical
mechanism for survival and we are each bounded by death which awaits
food's prolonged absence. Our primary difference, and most substantial
one, is found in the human being's capacity for awareness of it's
affections and capacities. Can we describe the lizard as having
"selflessness"? What is this abstraction but a mode of the attribute of
matter called life, which may come about when certain dependent
circumstances arise? Spinoza understands that such abstractions are
relative, just as all modes of the substance of matter must be. It is the
presence of hunger that ennobles sacrifice; It is the inevitability of
death that gives value to life.

As the primordial world first gave birth, and life populated every biome
of earth in multitudinous complexity, the evolutionary principle alone
determined the unfoldment of that life according to it's simple logic: The
garden blooms during spring, and it is winnowed during winter. So then, if
the greater whole of nature exists according to some implicit logic, and
we might in principle, be capable of determining certain aspects about the
form it will take far into the future by means of understanding that
logic's limitations, what can we say about humanity? Can we attribute our
wandering throughout history with any attributes or qualities beyond that
which is shared by all other forms of matter? It is with the advent of the
reflective thinker that certain aspects of the primeval logic change. Just
as it was when the first cells came into being, the very nature of the
game evolved into something more complex when life became capable of
autonomous direction.

Life begins, unfolds, and ends, largely within a consistent set of
bounding forces that provide the dramatic elements of which the play is
written. Humanity, up until now, has been totally contained within this
model. Even in principle, we were not capable of exceeding the boundaries
of life and death, of blooming and withering, of desire and capacity. What
will happen to us if this changes? We must confront the fact that this is
not altogether an impossibility. What can we say about the logic of such
a world? A world in which matter remakes itself according to some
derivative logic taken from what has been held in place for billions of
years?

It would be excessive speculation to entertain these ideas further than is
necessary; we simply don't have any idea what a sentient species could
achieve beyond our sample size of one. Instead, we should consider the
possibility as an indicator of a general trend. Life came about because
inert matter entangled into itself a heterodox motion. As a natural
byproduct of this process repeating itself continuously over eons, land
dwelling life arose, and eventually became self-aware. It is with the
anthropic principle in mind that we must be reminded of our inherent
smallness, our lack of uniqueness in the cosmos. If this smallness is to
be taken seriously, we must assume that the evolution of sentience is
simply inevitable, due to inherent qualities expressed by nature.

The organizational threshold of sentience poses a unique evolutionary
possibility, just as it was with the first cells and inert matter. Could
sentience be the initial passage of a chain of events which leads to some
further evolutionary stage which might transcend the one before it, just
as the first cells did with inert matter? If "selflessness" was given
value only once something came about which could act as a vessel for it's
expression, what attributes or qualities would a further abstraction
ennoble? If we assume that no such transcendence is possible or even
desirable to speculate on, then at least we must consider what
"advancement" in organizational complexity implies about nature; if
sentience is not unique to us, what does such development indicate about
the unfoldment of nature? The idea of "survival of the fittest" is not
teleological in nature, but it serves as but one thread in the tapestry of
cause and effect whose qualities are determinable through reason and
observation.

Spinoza's "God" has fascinated thinkers for centuries, but I think there
are logical implications that come from it which have only been made
possible to consider due to modern science. It is my hope that these
considerations might reappropriate ideas like "teleology" or "universal
purpose" away from religion, and back into the fray of speculative
philosophy to be redefined into something more useful.
